Weather forecast: 

Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto, and Hiroshima have average highs of around 22째C (72째F). 
Temperatures get warmer in late May. The average rainfall is a moderate 150 mm 
The temperatures in Japan in May are comfortable with low of 60째F and and high up to 73째F. 
You can expect rain for roughly half of the month of May in Japan.

Things to do with family: 

Explore with the kids at your own pace, picking the attractions that appeal to your youngsters the most. 
Take family pictures at Harry Potter's 25 Family-Friendly Activities in Japan 
Ride the World-famous Shinkansen 
Visit the Snow Monkeys in Nagano Prefecture 
Attend a Sumo Basho 

Things to eat: A few bites worth trying: 
roasted chestnuts, sesame dumplings, tamagoyaki (Japanese omelet), 
fish cakes, asasuke (lightly pickled cucumber), senbei (rice crackers with countless flavorings), 
tako tamago (baby octopus with quail egg), matcha daifuku (rice cake filled with green tea and cream)

Travel insurance options: 
FWD Travel Insurance, Starr Travel Insurance, Allianz Travel Insurance, 
MSIG Travel Insurance, Singlife Travel Insurance, Bubblegum Travel Insurance.

Sim card options: Mobal SIMs, Rakuten prepaid SIMs, BIC Camera SIMs, 
IIjmio's Japan, GTN Mobile, Bmobile, COMST, Nippon SIM, Sakura Mobile.

Transportation options and pricing: 
Tokyo to Osaka travel options: Bullet train from US$102.79, Flights from US$29.64. 
Osaka to Tokyo travel options: Bullet train from US$102.18, Flights from US$29.47. 
Kyoto to Tokyo travel options: Shinkansen/bullet train from US$99.05, Flights from US$29.47.

Off the beaten track locations: 
Hakone National Park, Shikoku Island, Takayama, Hida, Miyajima Island, 
Kamikawa Shrine, Kyushu, Tohoku, Shikoku, Hokkaido, Okinawa, Kumano Kodo, 
Lake Biwa, Funaya, Asahikawa.

Best hotel options and locations: 
Kyoto: The St. Regis Osaka, Imperial Hotel Osaka. 
Tokyo: Shinjuku, Ginza, Tokyo Station, Shibuya, Asakusa. 
Osaka: Namba, Umeda, Midosuji subway line, Osaka Castle, 
Apartment Hotel MIMARU, Ritz Carlton Kyoto, Hotel New Otani.
